README.md, before:

# Magenta RT: Streaming music generation!

Magenta RealTime is a Python library for live music audio generation on your
local device. It is the open source / on device companion to
[MusicFX DJ Mode](https://labs.google/fx/tools/music-fx-dj) and the
[Lyria RealTime API](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/music-generation).
Magenta RT allows for both [text](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ae1Kz2zmh9M)
and [audio](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vHIf2UKXmp4) prompting.

See our
[blog post](https://g.co/magenta/rt),
[paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.04651), and
[model card](https://github.com/magenta/magenta-realtime/blob/main/MODEL.md) for
more info.

![Animation of chunk-by-chunk generation in Magenta RT](notebooks/diagram.gif)

## Getting started

<a target="_blank" href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/magenta/magenta-realtime/blob/main/notebooks/Magenta_RT_Demo.ipynb">
  <img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open Notebook In Colab"/>
</a>

The fastest way to get started with Magenta RT is to try our official
[Colab Demo](https://colab.research.google.com/github/magenta/magenta-realtime/blob/main/notebooks/Magenta_RT_Demo.ipynb)
which runs in real time on freely available TPUs! Here is a quick
[video walkthrough](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SVTuEdeepVs).

**Update**: We now have two additional Colab demos supporting
[live audio input](https://colab.research.google.com/github/magenta/magenta-realtime/blob/main/notebooks/Magenta_RT_Audio_Injection.ipynb)
and [customization via finetuning](https://colab.research.google.com/github/magenta/magenta-realtime/blob/main/notebooks/Magenta_RT_Finetune.ipynb)!

If you have a machine with a TPU or GPU, you may also following the installation
instructions below for running locally.

## Running locally via Docker

You can also try generating music via Magenta RealTime locally on your hardware
using the following commands. This requires: (1) a powerful GPU w/ 40GB memory,
(2) Linux, and (3) [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started/).

First, **download the prebuilt container** (one time setup):

```sh
docker pull us-docker.pkg.dev/brain-magenta/magenta-rt/magenta-rt:gpu
docker tag us-docker.pkg.dev/brain-magenta/magenta-rt/magenta-rt:gpu magenta-rt
mkdir -p ~/.cache/magenta_rt && mkdir -p ./docker_io
```

Then, run the following command to **run Magenta RT on your local GPU**:

```sh
docker run -it \
  --gpus device=0 \
  -v ~/.cache/magenta_rt:/magenta-realtime/cache \
  -v $(pwd)/docker_io:/io \
  magenta-rt \
  python -m magenta_rt.generate \
  --prompt="blissful ambient synth" \
  --output="/io/output.mp3"
```

For now, this will only allow you to generate music in an offline setting. We
are actively working on a Docker-based demo that you can use to explore
real-time interaction!

If you prefer, you can build the Docker container locally using:

```sh
docker build -t magenta-rt .
```

## Local installation

If you prefer to run Magenta RT natively rather than
[using Docker](#running-locally-via-docker), follow these instructions!

### Step 1: install Python 3.12

We recommend Python 3.12, as it's the version Magenta RT is tested with.

```sh
sudo apt update
sudo apt install software-properties-common -y
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:deadsnakes/ppa
sudo apt install python3.12 python3.12-venv python3.12-dev -y
```

### Step 2: install Magenta RT for GPU

```sh
# Clone Magenta RT
git clone https://github.com/magenta/magenta-realtime.git
cd magenta-realtime
# Create a virtual environment
python3.12 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
# Patch and install t5x
git clone https://github.com/google-research/t5x.git && \
  pushd t5x && \
  git checkout 7781d16 && \
  patch setup.py < ../patch/t5x_setup.py.patch && \
  patch t5x/partitioning.py < ../patch/t5x_partitioning.py.patch && \
  pip install .[gpu] && \
  popd
# Install Magenta RT
pip install -e .[gpu] && pip install tf2jax==0.3.8
# Patch seqIO to remove tensorflow-text dependency
patch .venv/lib/python3.12/site-packages/seqio/vocabularies.py < patch/seqio_vocabularies.py.patch
```

### Step 2 (alternative): install Magenta RT for TPU

```sh
# Create a virtual environment
python3.12 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
# Install Magenta RT
git clone https://github.com/magenta/magenta-realtime.git
pip install -e magenta-realtime/[tpu] && pip install tf2jax==0.3.8 huggingface_hub
```

### Step 3: generate!

```sh
python -m magenta_rt.generate \
  --prompt="blissful ambient synth" \
  --output="./output.mp3"
```

## Examples

### Generating audio with Magenta RT

Magenta RT generates audio in short chunks (2s) given a finite amount of past
context (10s). We use crossfading to mitigate boundary artifacts between chunks.
More details on our model are coming soon in a technical report!

```py
from magenta_rt import audio, system
from IPython.display import display, Audio

num_seconds = 10
mrt = system.MagentaRT()
style = system.embed_style('funk')

chunks = []
state = None
for i in range(round(num_seconds / mrt.config.chunk_length)):
  state, chunk = mrt.generate_chunk(state=state, style=style)
  chunks.append(chunk)
generated = audio.concatenate(chunks)
display(Audio(generated.samples.swapaxes(0, 1), rate=mrt.sample_rate))
```

### Blending text and audio styles with MusicCoCa

MusicCoCa is a joint embedding model of text and audio styles. Magenta RT is
conditioned on MusicCoCa embeddings allowing for seamless blending of styles
using any number of text and audio prompts.

```py
from magenta_rt import audio, musiccoca

style_model = musiccoca.MusicCoCa()
my_audio = audio.Waveform.from_file('myjam.mp3')
weighted_styles = [
  (2.0, my_audio),
  (1.0, 'heavy metal'),
]
weights = np.array([w for w, _ in weighted_styles])
styles = style_model.embed([s for _, s in weighted_styles])
weights_norm = weights / weights.sum()
blended = (weights_norm[:, np.newaxis] * styles).mean(axis=0)
```

### Tokenizing audio with SpectroStream

SpectroStream is a discrete audio codec model operating on high-fidelity music
audio (stereo, 48kHz). Under the hood, Magenta RT models SpectroStream audio
tokens using a language model.

```py
from magenta_rt import audio, spectrostream

codec = spectrostream.SpectroStream()
my_audio = audio.Waveform.from_file('jam.mp3')
my_tokens = codec.encode(my_audio)
my_audio_reconstruction = codec.decode(tokens)
```

## Running tests

Unit tests:

```sh
pip install -e .[test]
pytest .
```

Integration tests:

```sh
python test/musiccoca_end2end_test.py
python test/spectrostream_end2end_test.py
python test/magenta_rt_end2end_test.py
```

## Citing this work

Please cite our [technical report](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.04651):

**BibTeX:**

```
@article{gdmlyria2025live,
    title={Live Music Models},
    author={Caillon, Antoine and McWilliams, Brian and Tarakajian, Cassie and Simon, Ian and Manco, Ilaria and Engel, Jesse and Constant, Noah and Li, Pen and Denk, Timo I. and Lalama, Alberto and Agostinelli, Andrea and Huang, Anna and Manilow, Ethan and Brower, George and Erdogan, Hakan and Lei, Heidi and Rolnick, Itai and Grishchenko, Ivan and Orsini, Manu and Kastelic, Matej and Zuluaga, Mauricio and Verzetti, Mauro and Dooley, Michael and Skopek, Ondrej and Ferrer, Rafael and Borsos, Zal{\'a}n and van den Oord, {\"A}aron and Eck, Douglas and Collins, Eli and Baldridge, Jason and Hume, Tom and Donahue, Chris and Han, Kehang and Roberts, Adam},
    journal={arXiv:2508.04651},
    year={2025}
}
```

## License and disclaimer

Magenta RealTime is offered under a combination of licenses: the codebase is
licensed under
[Apache 2.0](https://github.com/magenta/magenta-realtime/blob/main/LICENSE),
and the model weights under
[Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode).

In addition, we specify the following usage terms:

Copyright 2025 Google LLC

Use these materials responsibly and do not generate content, including outputs,
that infringe or violate the rights of others, including rights in copyrighted
content.

Google claims no rights in outputs you generate using Magenta RealTime. You and
your users are solely responsible for outputs and their subsequent uses.

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, all software and
materials distributed here under the Apache 2.0 or CC-BY licenses are
distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND,
either express or implied. See the licenses for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under those licenses. You are solely responsible for
determining the appropriateness of using, reproducing, modifying, performing,
displaying or distributing the software and materials, and any outputs, and
assume any and all risks associated with your use or distribution of any of the
software and materials, and any outputs, and your exercise of rights and
permissions under the licenses.

Commit message:

Adds WebSocket-based backend server and simple "Hello World" frontend demo.
PiperOrigin-RevId: 835618659
Change-Id: I1f1ffedd9f19bd4f3384a00c8c938b203882f81b

README.md, after:

# Magenta RT: Streaming music generation!

Magenta RealTime is a Python library for live music audio generation on your
local device. It is the open source / on device companion to
[MusicFX DJ Mode](https://labs.google/fx/tools/music-fx-dj) and the
[Lyria RealTime API](https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/music-generation).
Magenta RT allows for both [text](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ae1Kz2zmh9M)
and [audio](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vHIf2UKXmp4) prompting.

See our
[blog post](https://g.co/magenta/rt),
[paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.04651), and
[model card](https://github.com/magenta/magenta-realtime/blob/main/MODEL.md) for
more info.

![Animation of chunk-by-chunk generation in Magenta RT](notebooks/diagram.gif)

## Getting started

<a target="_blank" href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/magenta/magenta-realtime/blob/main/notebooks/Magenta_RT_Demo.ipynb">
  <img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open Notebook In Colab"/>
</a>

The fastest way to get started with Magenta RT is to try our official
[Colab Demo](https://colab.research.google.com/github/magenta/magenta-realtime/blob/main/notebooks/Magenta_RT_Demo.ipynb)
which runs in real time on freely available TPUs! Here is a quick
[video walkthrough](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SVTuEdeepVs).

**Update**: We now have two additional Colab demos supporting
[live audio input](https://colab.research.google.com/github/magenta/magenta-realtime/blob/main/notebooks/Magenta_RT_Audio_Injection.ipynb)
and [customization via finetuning](https://colab.research.google.com/github/magenta/magenta-realtime/blob/main/notebooks/Magenta_RT_Finetune.ipynb)!

If you have a machine with a TPU or GPU, you may also following the installation
instructions below for running locally.

## Running locally via Docker

You can also try generating music via Magenta RealTime locally on your hardware
using the following commands. This requires: (1) a powerful GPU w/ 40GB memory,
(2) Linux, and (3) [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started/).

Run the following commands to **run Magenta RT on your local GPU**. Then,
[**open the web demo**](https://localhost:8000) to play with Magenta RT!

```sh
mkdir -p ~/.cache/magenta_rt
docker run -it \
  --gpus device=0 \
  -v ~/.cache/magenta_rt:/magenta-realtime/cache \
  -p 8000:8000 \
  us-docker.pkg.dev/brain-magenta/magenta-rt/magenta-rt:gpu
```

If you prefer, you can build the Docker container locally using:

```sh
docker build -t magenta-rt .
```

## Local installation

If you prefer to run Magenta RT natively rather than
[using Docker](#running-locally-via-docker), follow these instructions!

### Step 1: install Python 3.12

We recommend Python 3.12, as it's the version Magenta RT is tested with.

```sh
sudo apt update
sudo apt install software-properties-common -y
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:deadsnakes/ppa
sudo apt install python3.12 python3.12-venv python3.12-dev -y
```

### Step 2: install Magenta RT for GPU

```sh
# Clone Magenta RT
git clone https://github.com/magenta/magenta-realtime.git
cd magenta-realtime
# Create a virtual environment
python3.12 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
# Patch and install t5x
git clone https://github.com/google-research/t5x.git && \
  pushd t5x && \
  git checkout 7781d16 && \
  patch setup.py < ../patch/t5x_setup.py.patch && \
  patch t5x/partitioning.py < ../patch/t5x_partitioning.py.patch && \
  pip install .[gpu] && \
  popd
# Install Magenta RT
pip install -e .[gpu] && pip install tf2jax==0.3.8
# Patch seqIO to remove tensorflow-text dependency
patch .venv/lib/python3.12/site-packages/seqio/vocabularies.py < patch/seqio_vocabularies.py.patch
```

### Step 2 (alternative): install Magenta RT for TPU

```sh
# Create a virtual environment
python3.12 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
# Install Magenta RT
git clone https://github.com/magenta/magenta-realtime.git
pip install -e magenta-realtime/[tpu] && pip install tf2jax==0.3.8 huggingface_hub
```

### Step 3: generate!

```sh
python -m magenta_rt.generate \
  --prompt="blissful ambient synth" \
  --output="./output.mp3"
```

## Examples

### Generating audio with Magenta RT

Magenta RT generates audio in short chunks (2s) given a finite amount of past
context (10s). We use crossfading to mitigate boundary artifacts between chunks.
More details on our model are coming soon in a technical report!

```py
from magenta_rt import audio, system
from IPython.display import display, Audio

num_seconds = 10
mrt = system.MagentaRT()
style = system.embed_style('funk')

chunks = []
state = None
for i in range(round(num_seconds / mrt.config.chunk_length)):
  state, chunk = mrt.generate_chunk(state=state, style=style)
  chunks.append(chunk)
generated = audio.concatenate(chunks)
display(Audio(generated.samples.swapaxes(0, 1), rate=mrt.sample_rate))
```

### Blending text and audio styles with MusicCoCa

MusicCoCa is a joint embedding model of text and audio styles. Magenta RT is
conditioned on MusicCoCa embeddings allowing for seamless blending of styles
using any number of text and audio prompts.

```py
from magenta_rt import audio, musiccoca

style_model = musiccoca.MusicCoCa()
my_audio = audio.Waveform.from_file('myjam.mp3')
weighted_styles = [
  (2.0, my_audio),
  (1.0, 'heavy metal'),
]
weights = np.array([w for w, _ in weighted_styles])
styles = style_model.embed([s for _, s in weighted_styles])
weights_norm = weights / weights.sum()
blended = (weights_norm[:, np.newaxis] * styles).mean(axis=0)
```

### Tokenizing audio with SpectroStream

SpectroStream is a discrete audio codec model operating on high-fidelity music
audio (stereo, 48kHz). Under the hood, Magenta RT models SpectroStream audio
tokens using a language model.

```py
from magenta_rt import audio, spectrostream

codec = spectrostream.SpectroStream()
my_audio = audio.Waveform.from_file('jam.mp3')
my_tokens = codec.encode(my_audio)
my_audio_reconstruction = codec.decode(tokens)
```

## Running tests

Unit tests:

```sh
pip install -e .[test]
pytest .
```

Integration tests:

```sh
python test/musiccoca_end2end_test.py
python test/spectrostream_end2end_test.py
python test/magenta_rt_end2end_test.py
```

## Citing this work

Please cite our [technical report](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.04651):

**BibTeX:**

```
@article{gdmlyria2025live,
    title={Live Music Models},
    author={Caillon, Antoine and McWilliams, Brian and Tarakajian, Cassie and Simon, Ian and Manco, Ilaria and Engel, Jesse and Constant, Noah and Li, Pen and Denk, Timo I. and Lalama, Alberto and Agostinelli, Andrea and Huang, Anna and Manilow, Ethan and Brower, George and Erdogan, Hakan and Lei, Heidi and Rolnick, Itai and Grishchenko, Ivan and Orsini, Manu and Kastelic, Matej and Zuluaga, Mauricio and Verzetti, Mauro and Dooley, Michael and Skopek, Ondrej and Ferrer, Rafael and Borsos, Zal{\'a}n and van den Oord, {\"A}aron and Eck, Douglas and Collins, Eli and Baldridge, Jason and Hume, Tom and Donahue, Chris and Han, Kehang and Roberts, Adam},
    journal={arXiv:2508.04651},
    year={2025}
}
```

## License and disclaimer

Magenta RealTime is offered under a combination of licenses: the codebase is
licensed under
[Apache 2.0](https://github.com/magenta/magenta-realtime/blob/main/LICENSE),
and the model weights under
[Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode).

In addition, we specify the following usage terms:

Copyright 2025 Google LLC

Use these materials responsibly and do not generate content, including outputs,
that infringe or violate the rights of others, including rights in copyrighted
content.

Google claims no rights in outputs you generate using Magenta RealTime. You and
your users are solely responsible for outputs and their subsequent uses.

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, all software and
materials distributed here under the Apache 2.0 or CC-BY licenses are
distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND,
either express or implied. See the licenses for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under those licenses. You are solely responsible for
determining the appropriateness of using, reproducing, modifying, performing,
displaying or distributing the software and materials, and any outputs, and
assume any and all risks associated with your use or distribution of any of the
software and materials, and any outputs, and your exercise of rights and
permissions under the licenses.
